# PentominoJS Interface Collection

A pentomino framework built with jQuery, jCanvas and HTML5 canvas.

## User Interfaces

Interfaces provided in this repository: 

### prelim_study.html

**Please note: for spoken instructions, make sure your browser does not block automatically playing audio.**
**'Dialog' popups are not fully supported in all browsers. There will be a better solution soon, but for 
now, you might want to change your browser to a [supported one](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog#Browser_compatibility).
Quickfix for Firefox: Visit ```about:config``` and set ```dom.dialog_element.enabled``` to ```true```.**

**REQUIRES SERVER SETUP.** Using [MAMP (Mac/Windows)](https://www.mamp.info/de/mac/): Once you have MAMP installed, create a server using the pentomino-js directory.
(Preferences > Server > select pentomino-js directory as root). Start the server and visit [http://localhost:8888/prelim_study_ui.html](http://localhost:8888/prelim_study_ui.html)

Interface to study the effect of different instruction giving strategies.
Includes a board showing different pentomino pieces to select from and a task board (which can't be manipulated be the user).

Currently, tasks can be imported from files generated by ```task_creator.html``` (examples can be found in the ```tasks``` folder). Pieces are highlighted when hovering the mouse over them and disappear at a mouse click.

### task_creator.html

Interface to create task for the *preliminary study* interface. 

A number of pieces can be generated at random first, then the position on both the initial and the goal board can be edited. Pieces be removed from the goal board by right-clicking. 

The task can finally be exported in JSON format, containing two entries 'initial' and 'task' with the respective board configurations.

### furhat_follower_ui.html

An interactive pentomino board and instructions for participants. Pieces can either be randomly generated on the board or imported from a json file.
The goal is to move / turn pieces until a target configuration is reached. Currently, instructions are logged to the console, but they could as well be spoken e.g. by a Furhat robot (see commented code in instruction_giver.js).

### index.html

This UI is made to generate and edit groups of shapes that can make bigger shapes.

### interactive_ifollower_ui.html

Interactive UI for actions in the pentomino domain.

### simple_igiver_ui.html

Prototype for the data collection in mechnical turk.

## Events 

The system fires different events that can be used for oberserving and modeling human behaviour.
Each event is composed through an event type, name of the object, position of the object and modified properties of the object.

### Event names

#### shape_moved

```json
{
    "type": "shape_moved",
    "object": "T3red",
    "changes":{
        "dx": 50,
        "dy": 25
    }
}
```

#### shape_rotated

```json
{
    "type": "shape_rotated",
    "object": "T2yellow",
    "changes":{
        "rotation": 180
    }
}
```

#### shape_collision

dx,dy - is the overlap on collision

startx, starty - is the position of the shape
beforehand

```json
{
    "type": "shape_collision",
    "object": "T3red",
    "changes":{
        "dx": 10,
        "dy": 20,
        "collided_shapes": [
            "T2blue"
        ],
        "startx": 0,
        "starty": 10
    }
}
```

#### shape_placed

```json
{
    "type": "shape_placed",
    "object": "T3red",
    "changes":{
        "x": 180,
        "y": 120
    }
}
```

#### shape_connected

```json
{
    "type": "shape_connected",
    "object": "T3red",
    "changes":{
        "other_shape": "I1green",
        "group_id": "group2"
    }
}
```
